Add changelog entries for 11.2.0 (#6671)
citusdata/citus: CHANGELOG.md

### citus v11.2.0 (January 30, 2023) ###

> * Adds support for outer joins having recurring tuples in the outer side of the

Reviewer: I'd probably still avoid "recurring tuple" altogether from the description.

What about: `Adds support for outer joins with reference tables / complex subqueries and ctes in the outer side of the
  join (e.g., \<reference table\subquery
cte> LEFT JOIN \<distributed table\subquery\>)`

> * Adds support for outer joins having recurring tuples in the outer side of the
>   join (e.g., \<reference table\> LEFT JOIN \<distributed table\>)

Author: ```suggestion
* Adds support for outer joins with reference tables / complex subquery-CTEs
  in the outer side of the join (e.g., \<reference table\> LEFT JOIN
  \<distributed table\>)
```

### citus v11.2.0 (January 30, 2023) ###

> 

Author: What about MERGE support? `prepare_chanelog.pl` script couldn't find any "description:" lines for it. And moreover, we're partially reverting that feature in #6675?

Reviewer 2: we still have MERGE for Citus local tables

> * Adds support for outer joins having a recurring rel in the outer side of the

Reviewer: recurring rel sounds too technical term, I don't think other than a handful of us could follow that :) Can you try to reword this?

  join (e.g., \<reference table\> LEFT JOIN \<distributed table\>)

* Adds support for creating `PRIMARY KEY`s and `UNIQUE`/`EXCLUSION`/`CHECK`/
  `FOREIGN KEY` constraints via `ALTER TABLE` command without providing a
  constraint name

* Adds support for using identity columns on Citus managed tables

* Adds `citus_task_wait()` UDF to wait on desired task status

* Adds `source_lsn`, `target_lsn` and `status` fields into
  `get_rebalance_progress()`

> * Adds `citus_get_transaction_clock()` UDF that returns a monotonically

Author: Should we advertise this UDF to users ?

Reviewer 2: maybe skip for the moment

  increasing logical causal clock for the current transaction

* Allows `citus_update_node()` to work with nodes from different clusters

* Introduces `citus.propagate_session_settings_for_loopback_connection` GUC to
  propagate local settings to new connections

* Introduces `citus_copy_shard_placement()` UDF with node id

* Introduces `citus_move_shard_placement()` UDF with node id

* Propagates `BEGIN` properties to worker nodes

* Deprecates `citus.replicate_reference_tables_on_activate` and makes it
  always `off`

* Drops GUC `citus.defer_drop_after_shard_move`

* Drops GUC `citus.defer_drop_after_shard_split`

* Drops `SHARD_STATE_TO_DELETE` state and uses the cleanup records instead

* Adds signal handlers for queue monitor to gracefully shutdown, cancel and to
  see config changes

* Defers cleanup after a failure in shard move or split

* Extends cleanup process for replication artifacts

* Improves a query that terminates compelling backends from
  `citus_update_node()`

* Includes Citus global pid in all internal `application_name`s

> * Reuses connections for shard splits and logical replication

Reviewer: Isn't this already on 11.1? https://github.com/citusdata/citus/pull/6314

Author: correct

* Avoids leaking `search_path` to workers when executing DDL commands

* Fixes `alter_table_set_access_method error()` for views

* Fixes `citus_drain_node()` to allow draining the specified worker only

* Fixes a bug in global pid assignment for connections opened by rebalancer
  internally

* Fixes a bug that might cause failing to query the views based on tables that
  have renamed columns

* Fixes a bug that might cause incorrectly planning the sublinks in query tree

> * Fixes a bug that might cause inserting incorrect `DEFAULT` values when

Reviewer: already on 11.1 and 11.0? https://github.com/citusdata/citus/pull/6323

Author: true, let me drop  this

  applying foreign key actions

> * Fixes a bug that that causes `DROP OWNED BY` to not drop schemas on workers

Author: oh I see: https://github.com/citusdata/citus/pull/6519

* Adds signal handlers for queue monitor to gracefully shutdown, cancel and to
  see config changes

* Defers cleanup after a failure in shard move or split

* Extends cleanup process for replication artifacts

* Improves a query that terminates compelling backends from
  `citus_update_node()`

* Includes Citus global pid in all internal `application_name`s

* Avoids leaking `search_path` to workers when executing DDL commands

* Fixes `alter_table_set_access_method error()` for views

* Fixes `citus_drain_node()` to allow draining the specified worker only

* Fixes a bug in global pid assignment for connections opened by rebalancer
  internally

* Fixes a bug that causes background rebalancer to fail when a reference table
  doesn't have a primary key

* Fixes a bug that might cause failing to query the views based on tables that
  have renamed columns

* Fixes a bug that might cause incorrectly planning the sublinks in query tree

* Fixes a floating point exception during
  `create_distributed_table_concurrently()`

* Fixes a rebalancer failure due to integer overflow in subscription and role
  creation

* Fixes a regression in allowed foreign keys on distributed tables

> * Fixes a use-after-free bug in connection management 

Reviewer 3: For some reason this line has a weird line ending. @onurctirtir do you have a broken git config that uses crlf for line endings?

You can fix this by running `ci/editorconfig.sh` and committing the change.

### citus v11.2.0 (January 30, 2023) ###

> * Adds support for outer joins having a recurring rel in the outer side of the join (e.g., \<reference table\> LEFT JOIN \<distributed table\>)

Reviewer: `recurring rel` sounds too technical term, I don't think other than a handful of us could follow that :) Can you try to reword this?

Author: replaced this with "recurring tuples"

* Adds support for creating `PRIMARY KEY`s and `UNIQUE`/`EXCLUSION`/`CHECK`/`FOREIGN KEY` constraints via `ALTER TABLE` command without providing a constraint name

* Adds support for using identity columns on Citus managed tables

* Adds `citus_task_wait()` UDF to wait on desired task status

* Adds `source_lsn`, `target_lsn` and `status` fields into `get_rebalance_progress()`

* Adds `citus_get_transaction_clock()` UDF that returns a monotonically increasing logical causal clock for the current transaction

* Allows `citus_update_node()` to work with nodes from different clusters

> * Introduces `citus.propagate_session_settings_for_loopback_connection` GUC to propagate local settings to new connections

Reviewer: we decided to lower the visibility of this (e.g., it is GUC_NO_SHOW_ALL). We do that because there are several edge cases with this GUC, and it is mostly useful for debugging / testing purposes for now.

So, maybe move this to below, and reword it to tell this is for testing/debugging purposes in the desc..

Author: hmm, then maybe we shouldn't mention this at ll ?

### citus v11.2.0 (January 30, 2023) ###

> * Adds support for `MERGE` command on local tables

Reviewer 2: minor: I'd make this the 4th item

* Adds support for outer joins having recurring tuples in the outer side of the
  join (e.g., \<reference table\> LEFT JOIN \<distributed table\>)

* Adds support for creating `PRIMARY KEY`s and `UNIQUE`/`EXCLUSION`/`CHECK`/
  `FOREIGN KEY` constraints via `ALTER TABLE` command without providing a
  constraint name

> * Adds support for using identity columns on Citus managed tables

Reviewer: We seem to support identity columns for all tables. Citus managed tables is mostly used to refer citus local tables (e.g., "citus.use_citus_managed_tables",).

Maybe just say: Adds support for using identity columns

> * Adds support for using identity columns on Citus managed tables

Reviewer 4: After discussing with @gokhangulbiz and @onderkalaci it's better to use "Citus tables" instead of "Citus managed tables"

> * Adds support for using identity columns on Citus managed tables

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Adds support for using identity columns on Citus tables
```

* Adds `citus_task_wait()` UDF to wait on desired task status

> 

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/citusdata/citus/pull/6576 was missing DESCRIPTION, but is a major feature

* Deprecates `citus.replicate_reference_tables_on_activate` and makes it
  always `off`

* Drops GUC `citus.defer_drop_after_shard_move`

* Drops GUC `citus.defer_drop_after_shard_split`

* Drops `SHARD_STATE_TO_DELETE` state and uses the cleanup records instead

* Allows `citus_update_node()` to work with nodes from different clusters

* Adds signal handlers for queue monitor to gracefully shutdown, cancel and to
  see config changes

* Defers cleanup after a failure in shard move or split

* Extends cleanup process for replication artifacts

* Improves a query that terminates compelling backends from
  `citus_update_node()`

* Includes Citus global pid in all internal `application_name`s

* Avoids leaking `search_path` to workers when executing DDL commands

* Fixes `alter_table_set_access_method error()` for views

* Fixes `citus_drain_node()` to allow draining the specified worker only

* Fixes a bug in global pid assignment for connections opened by rebalancer
  internally

* Fixes a bug that might cause failing to query the views based on tables that
  have renamed columns

* Fixes a bug that might cause incorrectly planning the sublinks in query tree

> * Fixes a floating exception during `create_distributed_table_concurrently()`

Author: should be "floating point" exception I guess

* Fixes a rebalancer failure due to integer overflow in subscription and role
  creation

* Fixes a regression in allowed foreign keys on distributed tables

* Fixes an uninitialized memory access in `create_distributed_function()`

* Fixes crash that happens when trying to replicate a reference table that is
  actually dropped

* Make sure to cleanup the shard on the target node in case of a
  failed/aborted shard move

* Makes sure to create replication artifacts with unique names

* Makes sure to disallow triggers that depend on extensions

* Makes sure to quote all identifiers used for logical replication to prevent
  potential issues

* Makes sure to skip foreign key validations at the end of shard moves

> * Prevents crashes on `UPDATE` with `RETURNING` clauses

Reviewer 2: maybe: certain `RETURNING` clauses

to not signal that there was a generic problem with RETURNING
